{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red254\green187\blue100;\red0\green0\blue0;\red254\green209\blue100;
\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green164\blue159;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c99608\c73333\c39216;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c99608\c81961\c39216;
\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c64314\c62353;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11280\viewh14540\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 Introduction\cb1 \
\
1) Bee health interactivity stressors \
- Interplay between nutrition and disease (virus). There is a forward-feedback between them both.\
- Mention previous paper (pollen diet and IAPV virus)\
\
2) Unknown\
- Mechanisms behind diet and virus interaction measured with gene expression\
- Virus by itself (Galbraith paper)\
- Diet effect (Avenut)\
\
3) What we did\
- RNA-seq experiment\
- Compare to Galbraith virus effect\
- Hint at statistics and visualization across both studies \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf3 - Use Adam\'92s draft to write the introduction (Frame study in same way, interacting stressors in bee health)\
- Summary of what that paper found (mortality). And now we want to understand the underlying mechanisms. Transcriptomics is one way to do that. Gene expression patterns related to virus, diet, and interactions.\
\
- Short summary of the bee methods. Virus and no virus. Two different Diets. We focus on the monofloral (focus on issue of diet quality). Graphs of those particular subsets of the data (show them again). Data previously published in doleful et al, but this is what we previously found.
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb4 Methods\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf3 RNA-seq\
RNA prep\
Illumina sequencing at DNA facility\
What version of genome mapped to\
What mapping program did he use\
What percent of reads mapped to the genome\
\
Statistics (DESeq, EdgerR, visualizations, overlaps fisher, GO) 
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb4 Results\cb1 \
\
1)  Mortality data\
\
2)\
a) Main effects\
- Diet \'97> # of DEGs \'97> GO list / visualization/ REVIGO\
- Virus \'97> # of DEGs  \'97> GO list / visualization/ REVIGO\
\
- Interaction  \'97> # of DEGs\
- Provide summary of the different RNA-seq statistical methods (edgeR, DESeq, etc)\
- Supplement with # DEGs\
- Justify why use DESeq2 (Galbraith comparison)\
\
b) Pairwise comparisons\
- Each pair \'97> # of DEGs \'97> GO list / visualization/ REVIGO\
\
3) Comparison to Galbraith\
- Comparing the noise in the data (PCP)\
- Overlaps \'97> # overall, Fisher test p-value (between V+/V- and Galbraith)\
- List of overlaps (Top 10) \'97> List GO terms\
- Venn diagrams of virus effect between Galbraith and us\
- Compare S:N of overlaps compared to non-overlaps\
\
\cb4 Discussion\cb1 \
\
- What are the genes/functions\
	- Diet effect large\
	- Virus effect small\
	- No interaction terms!?\
- Using multiple study comparisons to have pros of real environment but noisy data and artificial environment but clean data\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs25\fsmilli12800 \cf5 \cb6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 =====================================\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb7 - CCD changing environment\
- Several factors, but likely interactive\
- Two factors that have changed lately\
	1) Nutrition (monoculture)\
	2) Virus (mite)\
- Interaction between virus and diet\
	- Adam\'92s study\
\
- We do gene expression of nutrition and virus\
- Compare nutrition to previous gene expression (Alenaux)\
- Compare virus to Galbraith virus effect\
- Hint at statistics and visualization across both studies\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0
\cf0 =====================================\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
1) Bee health interactivity stressors \
- Interplay between nutrition and disease (virus). There is a forward-feedback between them both.\
- Mention previous paper (pollen diet and IAPV virus)\
\
2) Unknown\
- Mechanisms behind diet and virus interaction measured with gene expression\
- Virus by itself (Galbraith paper)\
- Diet effect (Avenut)\
\
3) What we did\
- RNA-seq experiment\
- Compare to Galbraith virus effect\
- Hint at statistics and visualization across both studies \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}