{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20960\viewh13600\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
1) Bee health interactivity stressors \
- Interplay between nutrition and disease (virus). There is a forward-feedback between them both.\
- Mention previous paper (pollen diet and IAPV virus)\
\
2) Unknown\
- Mechanisms behind diet and virus interaction measured with gene expression\
- Virus by itself (Galbraith paper)\
- Diet effect (Avenut)\
\
3) What we did\
- RNA-seq experiment\
- Compare to Galbraith virus effect\
- Hint at statistics and visualization across both studies \
- We hypothesized that\'85 To test this, we\'85.\
\
###############################################################\
###############################################################\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 - Use Adam\'92s draft to write the introduction (Frame study in same way, interacting stressors in bee health)\
- Summary of what that paper found (mortality). And now we want to understand the underlying mechanisms. Transcriptomics is one way to do that. Gene expression patterns related to virus, diet, and interactions.\
\
- Short summary of the bee methods. Virus and no virus. Two different Diets. We focus on the monofloral (focus on issue of diet quality). Graphs of those particular subsets of the data (show them again). Data previously published in Dolezal et al, but this is what we previously found.\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
}